THE SCULPTOR
Viktor Makarchuk · MaVik

Chapter 2. Clay
Part 06

“You’re too sure of yourself.”

“No. Your mother asked. And you’re the kind of person who can argue with a request, but not with a need.”

Marta froze.

Again he had said something he had no right to know so precisely.

“Don’t do that,” she said quietly.

“Do what?”

“Talk about me as if you’ve already taken me apart.”

Lucas’s expression changed.

Barely.

For the first time there was something in it that did not look like calm precision. Maybe pity. Maybe fatigue. Maybe the memory of a very old mistake.

“I don’t take people apart, Marta.”

Her eyes snapped up.

“To you, I’m Lieutenant Koval.”

“Yes,” he said. “Lieutenant Koval.”

But he had already called her Marta.

Not brazenly.

Not tenderly.

As if by accident he had touched not her name but the place where the skin was thinner.

She left the center faster than she had planned.

Outside, it was brighter than it had been in the morning. The wet ball of snow the children had never managed to roll to the middle of the playground lay beside the rocket, slowly losing its shape.

Marta got into the car but did not start the engine.

Her phone vibrated again.

This time it was Serhii.

The battery is almost certainly stolen. There’s a report from the garages near that neighborhood. The stepfather’s busted.

Marta read the message.

Then looked at the doors of the center.

Nazar was safe. At least today.

Lucas was a vetted volunteer. At least on paper.

The stepfather had turned out to be exactly what he looked like. At least in this part.

Everything should have been getting clearer.

But somehow it was the opposite.

That evening she was going to see Lucas at the church.

Where her father spoke about love.

Where her mother sorted mercy into boxes, forms, and lists.

Where yesterday a stranger had asked a question that still had no answer.

Marta started the car.

And for the first time all morning, she thought not about Nazar.

About Lucas Martyn.

And about the fact that some people do not lie.

That was exactly why it was harder not to believe them.
